[THEME MUSIC]
>>GEORGE NOORY: Well,
welcome to "Beyond Belief."
Lynn Monet is with us,
the author of the highly
rated series "Omnipresent"
and the "Colors of Heaven,
Beginnings Never End."
She can see spirits, and
has been a hospice nurse
for more than 25 years.
Lynne, welcome to
"Beyond Belief."
>>LYNN MONET: Thank you
so much for having me.
I really, really have
been looking forward
to being here with you today.
>>NOORY: They call you
the paranormal consultant.
What is that?
>>MONET: People reach out
to me for various things.
If they feel that they have a
haunting in their house, a lot
of times, they reach out to
me to determine what it is
and how to get it out,
if it can be gotten out.
Also, people are
reaching out to me now--
I'm working with a
person on mental illness,
and schizophrenia,
and addiction,
and how demonic attachments
and other disembodied souls
attach and create problems
for people that way.
And I'm doing several
other things as well.
>>NOORY: You can
feel these entities
when you walk into a house?
>>MONET: I can, and I
can see them as well.
I have--
>>NOORY: You' like the
lady in "Poltergeist."
>>MONET: I guess so, yeah.
>>NOORY: Do you ever get scared?
>>MONET: No.
I've had this gift ever
since I was a little girl.
When I was age
five, my brother--
where I was living,
first of all,
we lived three short
blocks behind a hospital.
So it was commonplace for
my brother and sisters and I
to see people in patient
bed gown gowns walking
through the house.
So we didn't really think
that it was abnormal.
>>NOORY: Were they dead?
>>MONET: They were
dead people, yes.
The spirits of people in gowns.
>>NOORY: Five years
old you saw this?
>>MONET: I was.
I was five years old.
I was in my parent's master
bedroom in my mother's jewelry
box, and my brother was on the
floor playing with his cars,
Matchbox or whatever
they had back then.
And I was decorating
myself, and I
turned to show my brother how
glamorous I had made myself.
And of course, he's
fixated on the wall.
So I turned to look at
the wall, and there's
this ectoplasm that is
starting to form, which I--
like a misting.
And in that misting, stepped in
my brother's best friend, John,
John's mother,
father and brother.
And so my brother and
I got up and we ran out
of the bedroom
screaming for my mother.
I went in one direction, my
brother went into the other.
And he found her first.
And I hear him saying
to my mom, Mom.
Mom, John and his
family is here.
And she's like, well, I
didn't even hear them knock.
And he says, and
they're in your bedroom.
And she's like,
they're in my bedroom?
Who let them in my bedroom?
So they came to the bedroom, and
of course, nothing was there.
But the thing that was
ironic is the very,
very next day is my brother
went back to school--
it was the first day
after spring break--
and he was on the bus, and
little John was not on the bus.
They sat together on the bus.
And then when he got
to class, their desks
were side by side
in the classroom,
and John wasn't there either.
And after they said the
Pledge of Allegiance,
the teacher stood up
in front of the class
and stated that John would
not be returning to school
because he and his entire family
perished in an auto accident.
And it happened that
day that we saw him
and his parents and his
brother show up in the bedroom.
So it was as if they were
coming to say goodbye.
There was a period
that I did go through
that I was afraid of spirits.
I was born and
raised Presbyterian,
and my mother took a jaunt
with a different religion
that didn't believe in spirits.
And I was placed up in front
of the elders of that church
and told that I was possessed,
and what I was seeing
was demons, and
terrible things were
going to happen to
me at 10 years old.
And it scared me so badly
that even though I still
continued to see
things, I would run out
of the room just as
fast as anybody else
that, oh, it's a ghost.
>>NOORY: But you weren't
an evil kid, were you?
>>MONET: No, no.
I was a really good kid.
I was a really, really good kid.
>>NOORY: That scared the
living daylights out of you.
>>MONET: It did.
It did.
To be told that and be in a
room surrounded by eight men,
and you're 10 years
old standing there,
it was very traumatic for
me to have that happen.
>>NOORY: What got you involved
in studying life after death?
>>MONET: Well, a
couple of things.
As a single mother, I purchased
a house, unbeknownst to me,
that was haunted.
And that opened
up things for me,
because then I was
able to connect
with people of like mind.
And then I realized that I
wasn't so strange after all,
that there were
other people like me.
And I started to
enhance my gifts
and focus more on retrieving
some of what I lost as a child.
And I've been a nurse for
a very, very long time,
and 25 years of that has
been an end-of-life care.
And with the gifts that
I have of second sight,
I've been able to help a
lot of people cross over.
I've seen hundreds, if not
1,000 people pass away.
I've seen them come
out of their bodies.
And I've seen some very, very,
very beautiful things occur
at the time of death
that made me want
to write the book to help
take the stigma of death
and dying away.
And to help people,
too, that maybe
have lost someone or maybe
have terminal illness
to help them not be so
afraid of death itself.
>>NOORY: I bet you've seen all
kinds of things, haven't you?
>>MONET: I have.
I have seen a lot of things.
But there's a beauty to death.
And so many times working
in end-of-life care,
as I have worked for many, many
years, I've seen so many things
and been able to be
part of so many things.
People even coming back
and forth during the time
that they're rallying
and talking about things
that they've seen
on the other side.
And they come back
and they start talking
about what they've seen.
Or actually, even seeing
people come out of their bodies
and seeing the loved ones come
to connect with their families,
and to come and help
them cross over.
>>NOORY: How did you
break the belief system
that you were dealing
with evil entities?
>>MONET: When I purchased that
house that I wrote the book
"Omnipresent" about, I was
placed into a position where I
was meeting now with people--
in search of trying
to find someone
to help me with that
house, I was now
getting involved with
people of common--
of a belief system of--
>>NOORY: Similar to yours?
>>MONET: Similar to mine.
So then I was able to
then learn more about it
and felt more
comfortable with it.
>>NOORY: Did you ever convince
your mother this was OK?
>>MONET: Yes.
After she got older and she
kind of divorced herself
from the religion that she
had gotten involved in she
started to believe it.
I mean, especially after
that thing happened
with John and my brother and
I seeing it at the same time.
But still I was born back in
the '60s, and back in the '60s,
you just didn't talk
about stuff like that
because you would literally
have the men with white coats
coming to your house and
taking you away for lobotomy.
Yeah.
So, it was all
about the Joneses.
So you kept those
things under wraps.
You didn't really talk
about those sorts of things.
>>NOORY: Have you ever heard
of people speaking to the dead?
>>MONET: Yes.
Yes.
As a matter of fact, one thing
that really, really brought it
home for me as a nurse is
I was working on the unit,
I had had a patient named
Edna that had been on my unit
for about two weeks.
And this is something
that can't be disputed
because so many times,
the medical field
sees these as hallucinations,
people that are talking about--
>>NOORY: Or mental illness.
>>MONET: Or mental
illness, exactly.
And I had a patient, Edna.
She was totally blind.
She had been totally
blind for 10 years
and she couldn't see
shadows or anything.
And she'd been on my
unit for two weeks.
She was kind of in that stage
going into the transition stage.
And her son and daughter
came to the nurses' station
and they said to me,
Mom's talking to people
in the room that aren't there.
Well, I kind of expected that.
But of course, I can't come out
and say that, so I told them,
I said, well, let me walk with
you down to your mama's room
and see if I can
get her something
to make her more comfortable.
And when we walked
into the room,
Edna was laying at a slant, and
she was smiling from ear to ear.
And she was reaching
up into the sky
as if she was being handed
something very, very delicate
because she was being very
careful with whatever it was.
And I said to Edna,
I said, Edna--
I said, who's here?
And she said, George.
And it just so happened,
same name as yours.
>>NOORY: Wasn't me.
>>MONET: No, it wasn't.
No.
Her husband's name was George.
And the daughter turned as white
as a sheet and had to sit down.
And she said, well,
George is my father.
>>NOORY: George died, right?
>>MONET: My father's been
dead for x amount of years.
and then Edna spoke
up and she said,
and he's glad that you're
taking good care of Pixie.
Pixie was Edna's poodle.
When George passed
away, the son had
to take possession of
Pixie, the poodle who
was an elderly dog now, but
still very, very much alive.
And he told me the story
because Edna couldn't
care for the dog being blind.
And the son said to
me, he said, do you
think that my mom
is hallucinating?
And of course, I can't
come out and say, no, I
don't think she's hallucinating.
I think your father is here.
So I handed it back.
And I said, well, do you think
that she's hallucinating?
And he said, well, I don't know.
And I said, well, do you
mind if I try something?
I said, I'm not trying to
change your religious beliefs,
but in my experience,
loved ones do come in
to help souls that are
transitioning over.
Would you mind if
I try something?
And he said, no.
And I asked Edna, I said, Edna,
can I ask George a question?
And she nodded her head yes.
And I said, what color
is your son's shirt?
And she said, yellow.
And he was wearing a yellow
Ralph Lauren Polo shirt.
And the son got
it in that moment.
And he said, hi, dad.
He realized that the only way
that his mother could have known
that is if his father had told
her because she couldn't see it
for herself.
And people with
the medical field,
how can a blind
person hallucinate?
They can't see.
So to me, this really
brought it home for me.
And I've had many, many other
examples along that line that
were eye opening.
>>NOORY: What is it
about the other side,
the afterlife, that
fascinates you the most?
>>MONET: Oh, my goodness.
So many things.
Speaking of Edna, too, there are
so many times during that time
when somebody is transitioning
that people miss out
on that they have an
opportunity to communicate
with loved ones on the
other side themselves.
When a person is going
through that transition,
the filters efface and
they're able to hear
the telepathy from
the spiritual world,
as well as the human embodied
souls speaking as well.
And with that, they
can communicate
with the spirits themselves.
I mean, how many times have
you heard somebody say,
I wish I could tell so-and-so
that I'm sorry one more time,
or that I love them, or ask
Uncle Bob where the clock is.
This is your chance.
And so many times
people miss it.
But getting to be a part
of the loved ones coming
in and the angels-- and there
are other beings to where
the galactic meets the spirit,
because there are other souls
that--
when my mother passed away
that came in to collect her.
They were these big,
tall, beautiful beings
that walked along with the
angels but didn't have wings.
And they appeared to
come from somewhere else.
They were gorgeous, very tall,
white hair, beautiful faces.
And the thing is, is you've
got to think about it.
With as many stars as
there are out in the world
that there are solar
systems around them.
And it would be
ignorant to think
that we're the only ones here.
>>NOORY: True.
>>MONET: And those
beings also have
to go somewhere when they
finish their lifetime
and where they're at
and what they're doing.
And we are energy.
We are created of energy.
And if you want to take it
from a scientific angle,
energy cannot be
created or destroyed.
So those beings also,
when they finish,
have to go somewhere too.
So there are some very,
very beautiful beings
on the other side in addition
to the more human looking ones.
And that's why I say
that the galactic comes
in with the spiritual and
that everybody's right.
So you've got that
galactic spiritual thing.
And there's kind of that
divide, but it really all
comes together.
>>NOORY: Lynn, at this point,
what is the dying process
mean to you?
>>MONET: There are
various things.
There is, of course,
the physical side,
which is what you
can see physically
of the body transitioning
and the body changing itself.
And there's also
the spiritual side
where they're
transitioning, but yet you
start to see the loved ones
coming in to assist them
and to help them cross over.
And when people are getting
ready, or close to their time
to cross over, they will
start talking about it.
They'll say, oh, well, so and
so, will you take care of my dog
if something happens to me?
Or like, for instance,
in the case of my mother,
she started going around the
facility that she was staying in
and she was telling people,
I'm going to go home tomorrow.
And sure enough, she did.
She passed away at 1:30
something the next day.
But she even went so far to
tell one lady that had just
had her dog put down three days
earlier that she would care
for the dog for the woman
until the woman could actually
get there to retrieve
the dog when she had
her time to transition over.
So people do have an
awareness, a lot of times,
of when their time is
going to come closer to--
>>NOORY: What do you
think happens to the soul
when we cross over?
>>MONET: We simply shed our
skin and step out of it.
The soul is eternal.
The soul is-- the
soul doesn't age.
It's always eternal.
And we just go on.
It's just simple shedding.
It's almost a relief to
most people, especially
those that have come back
from near-death experiences
and they talk about
the relief when
they exit the physical body.
>>NOORY: Do you believe
in reincarnation, Lynn?
>>MONET: I do.
I do.
I believe in incarnation
and reincarnation.
And there is a difference.
>>NOORY: What is
that difference?
>>MONET: The difference is,
is people that reincarnate
come here for a purpose.
They have an actual plan of some
goals that they need to meet.
>>NOORY: Or something that
they left out of another life?
>>MONET: Yes, or even a karmic
thing that needs to be met,
or that sort of thing.
People that incarnate
volunteer to come here.
They choose to come here.
They are chosen to
come here out of people
that volunteer to come here.
And they come here more so
to help guide and teach.
They don't have to reincarnate.
When people that are
incarnates cross over,
the difference between
reincarnating and incarnating
on that part is
the reincarnating
people have to go through a
form of schooling, of course,
after they've gone
through their life review
and the Akashic records
they go through.
And they also get to
see things that they--
opportunities that they missed.
Whereas the person
that incarnates will go
through more of a debriefing.
They'll go through
the similar things,
but more of a debriefing.
And then to them,
heaven almost turns
into an airport where
they just go off
to other galaxies
and other places
that-- wherever they want to go.
>>NOORY: Why our
house is haunted?
>>MONET: I learned that with
the house that I was living,
it's not about the
age of the house.
It's about the age of the
ground that it's built on.
So even a brand new house, if
it's built in the wrong place--
>>NOORY: And what
it's built over.
>>MONET: Yes.
There is vortexes,
there are ley lines.
There are all kinds of things.
>>NOORY: Cemeteries.
>>MONET: Yes, absolutely.
Indian burial grounds.
So you got to check your
ground even before your house.
And a lot of times,
some of the things
that are negative that
happen within a house
are caused because
they're already haunted.
The act doesn't
bring the haunting,
the haunting's are already
there that creates the act.
Like the house that
I had purchased,
a young man had hung
himself in the house
and there were two demons.
>>NOORY: What drove him to that?
>>MONET: I believe that it
was the presence in the house.
There were actually two
demons in that house.
And a lot of times,
people, when they
get a ghost in their house,
the first thing that they say
is, oh, I've got a
demon in my house.
>>NOORY: So even
can promote that?
>>MONET: Yes, absolutely.
Absolutely.
They can encourage.
They have a negative
vibration about them that--
and they can talk to them
while they're sleeping
and encourage them to do that.
The negative pull that
they have, most definitely.
And then they thrive on
the act of the person--
the sorrow that it creates and
the grieving that it creates,
they feed on that
negativity, and it enables
them to do more physical acts.
>>NOORY: What happens if a soul
doesn't want to cross over?
>>MONET: They don't
have to cross over.
Just like in life, they
have the freedom to choose.
And most of those people
usually are the ones that
will end up haunting houses.
And there are many
reasons why some of them
choose not to cross over.
>>NOORY: Now, those that
haunt, were they good people
when they were alive?
>>MONET: Sometimes, yes.
Some of them were.
A lot of times, people are--
choose to stay earthbound
because sometimes
of addiction, sometimes
feeling not worthy
because of religious beliefs
that have instilled in them
that they weren't
worthy to pass over.
So they'd rather stay in that
realm of the fourth dimension
than cross over and meet
their maker in their mind.
And there are also
other things, too.
Sometimes people will
be caring for someone
and expect that person to go,
and then all of a sudden they
go first.
And then when the person that
they were caring for then
crosses over, the initial
caretaker gets stuck here,
and they kind of lose their way
and forget how to cross over.
I had a patient that
was actively passing.
I had my med card.
I was in front of the
room getting something
for the lady that
was transitioning,
and I see the spirit peering
out from around a pillar
in a sitting area.
And I said to him,
I said, hello.
I said, hey, are you there.
I said, why haven't
you crossed over?
And of course, he's
looking over his shoulder
to see who I'm talking to
because nobody has probably
spoken to him in
about 100 years.
He appeared to be dressed in
clothes like from the 1800s.
He was a younger fella.
It looked like he was
about 35, handsome man.
And he started to make
his way over to my card,
eventually, after I
kind of coaxed him.
And I said to him, I said, so
why haven't you crossed over?
You can cross over.
And because he had not crossed
over, the cause of death
still showed.
So he had a Swiss
cheese appearance
to his abdomen,
which indicated to me
a corrosive disease like cancer,
or cirrhosis of the liver
was what caused his death.
They also continue to have
their addiction issues.
Their mental illness,
they still have.
And of course, we
keep our senses.
In death, the sense
of smell is more
of a memory recall than
an actual scent thing
because you don't have
an olfactory nerve.
But in the case of this
gentleman, I told him, I said,
I'm here.
This lady's getting
ready to pass.
I said, I can help
you cross over.
And he said-- in a very
heavy Irish brogue,
he says, me lady,
I can't cross over.
And I'm like, oh, sure you can.
Of course, you can.
I can help you cross over.
And he says, no.
He says, my wife and my
mistress are on the other side
and neither one knew
about the other.
>>NOORY: They're
waiting for him, huh?
>>MONET: Right.
So he stayed
earthbound because he
didn't want to go and have to be
confronted about his infidelity.
>>NOORY: Even in the spirit
world you get confronted?
>>MONET: Yes.
Well, if he were to cross over,
he would have been confronted.
So he decided not to cross over.
And he just stayed
wandering the Earth.
>>NOORY: Sometimes when
your loved ones die,
we never get contact
from them again.
Why not?
>>MONET: They're
always around us.
It's just some people are more
sensitive to it than others.
There are ways that you can
create contact, such as making
a pact with them.
I made a pact with my mother
before she passed away.
But people can also
make a pact with people
that have crossed over because
they can hear you talking.
With my mother,
I had asked her--
she had cancer in the
year before she passed.
>>NOORY: Sorry to hear that.
>>MONET: Thank you.
We were checking off her
bucket list, and I asked her,
I said, Mom--
I said, life gets
stressful and I'd kind of
like to know when you're here
and I'm not paying attention
that you're really here.
So she had long hair like
mine, only hers was pearlescent
white, very long, wavy hair.
And I said, would you please
leave one of your hairs?
>>NOORY: Now, this is
when she was still alive?
>>MONET: When she
was still alive.
But you can still do it, even
though they've crossed over
because they can hear you.
Not necessarily a hair,
but you can pick something.
A ladybug or a feather.
My sister, who recently
passed away, leaves feathers.
So with my mother, the
day of her funeral,
I drew a bath with some bubbles.
And on top of the bath laying
lengthwise was one of her hairs.
>>NOORY: Aha.
>>MONET: And even three
years after that, I
had gone back to school to
further my education as a nurse.
I also have a degree
in biological science.
And I was going
into a psych class.
It was a very,
very difficult test
that I was taking that day that
I didn't feel prepared for.
But before I went
into the classroom,
I had stopped at the
student bookstore
and I had picked up a binder
out of thousands of them
in multiple colors, and
some loose leaf papers
to put into the
three ring binder.
And I went straight from
the bookstore to my car
to the classroom.
And I sat down.
And when I opened up
that three-ring binder,
one of my mother's hairs was
looped in the center ring
of the teeth of that binder.
And there's no way that the
hair could have gotten there.
I mean, out of
thousands that I picked,
what are the chances that
some loose hair was just
stuck in there like that?
And even if it was,
it brought me comfort.
>>NOORY: Astronomical.
>>MONET: Yes.
So they are around, and
she was letting me know.
I took comfort in the fact that
she was there and supporting me
through that difficult time.
And I'm still today--
at Thanksgiving,
my mom's been gone
for almost 10 years,
and I found one
of her long hairs
across the dining room
chair at Thanksgiving.
>>NOORY: Would you have
felt left out had you not
gotten any signs at all?
>>MONET: I would have.
When my mother did
pass away and I
watched her come
out of her body,
it was such a beautiful thing to
see all of the loved ones coming
up to greet her.
I mean, there were many of
them that I recognized myself.
And of course, the ones
that I didn't recognize,
she knew who they were.
But when you're in the presence
of those spirits, the love
and the elation that
comes over, there
are no human words
that can describe it
or a feeling that can touch it.
It's such a beautiful thing.
Something that you
feel like that you've
missed that you didn't realize
how long you were missing it
until you experience it.
And I was sitting
there smiling--
because you can't
help but smile when
you're in the presence of that--
and I'm watching my mother.
And I turn to look and I notice
that her physical body has
stopped breathing in her bed.
And I'm thinking to
myself, wow, I better
call a nurse because
if a nurse walks in,
my mother has just passed away
and I'm sitting here smiling.
That's not a normal response.
>>NOORY: They're going to
think you did something.
>>MONET: Exactly.
So I'm like-- but to
me, she wasn't dead
because I could see her
standing right there.
And I'm watching her and
she's just very happy
having these people come
up and approach her.
And, in that moment I
did, I'm like, please,
I wanted to come
to the party, too.
There was this beautiful
reception that had been created,
and a reunion for her.
And I wanted in that moment
to jump into it as well.
Not that I wanted to leave,
because I have-- single mom
with children, and I had--
needed to take care of those.
But just for the day, I
wouldn't have minded going.
So when the nurse came in
and pronounced her dead,
I asked if I could stay in
the room for a little while
because the festivities
were still going on
for almost 20 minutes our time.
And of course, there is
no time on the other side.
Things here are linear, but
they're not on the other side.
But I got to see everything.
I got to see my mother exit.
That's how I saw those spirits,
those beautiful, tall ones that
were just magnificent.
>>NOORY: What
happens, though, when
a spirit decides to move on?
Does it ever come back again?
>>MONET: It does.
Well, and again, that
depends on whether they're
a reincarnate or an
incarnate, and where
they are in their
spiritual journey,
in their collective
consciousness.
>>NOORY: Can it reincarnate and
still come back, or is it gone?
>>MONET: No.
We're never gone.
I mean, we shed our bodies
and then we cross over.
So our spirit, our energy--
our spirits are always
there no matter what.
And our loved ones
are around us all.
>>NOORY: See, what
I don't understand,
Lynn, is how could a
spirit reincarnate,
it's now in another human body,
and still be around as a spirit?
>>MONET: Oh, no, no, no, no.
They're not.
They're not as a spirit too.
We are fragments that come
from a collective conscious
of ourselves that are
on the other side.
>>NOORY: So once
it's gone, it's gone?
>>MONET: Once the spirit is
no longer embodied, it's gone.
But the spirit, when it's
embodied, it's in physical form
and it's here.
But it's not both a
spirit and embodied.
>>NOORY: You can't do
both at the same time?
>>MONET: No, you've got to
have either one or the other.
>>NOORY: That's
what I didn't think.
>>MONET: Yeah.
>>NOORY: Fascinating.
What drives you?
>>MONET: What drives me?
I really, really am
hoping to bring comfort
to people with their
concerns about death.
There's such a
stigma of about it
and such a finality
for most people that--
and it's a fact of life.
I mean, really when we die, we
really begin living, really.
It's amazing over there
with all of the spirits
and things like
that that are there
to love us and cheer us on.
>>NOORY: A lot of people,
Lynn, are so connected
to their animals and
pets, they love them.
And of course, like a
human, a pet will pass on.
Is it still around?
>>MONET: The spirit
is still around,
but we do see our pets again.
And that's another
thing, too, with people.
We see them again.
With the pets, they come
in more of a second part
of the reception that you have.
They do come in.
And the thing is, is
people need to understand
is it's not just your
animals from this lifetime
that you get to
have a reunion with,
it is your pets from many
lifetimes on many planets.
So you might be surprised if you
have a white elephant or a camel
running up to give
you a hug, and you're
expecting a German shepherd,
because they're all
coming to visit you.
>>NOORY: Absolutely.
Have you ever been shocked by
anything on the other side?
>>MONET: Some of the
things-- well, for one thing,
seeing those spirits
that appeared
to be from somewhere
else, that was very, very
interesting to me.
And there are other things, too.
I mean, there are
elementals and things
like that are in
spirit form that
are a whole other
facet of spirituality.
But yes, but mostly
getting to see
that there were some other
beings from somewhere else
there that was a
huge thing for me.
>>NOORY: What does
God mean to you, Lynn?
>>MONET: I believe that
God is the overall creator
of everything.
Some people call it
the higher power.
There are different
names for God.
There's Yahweh, there's Jehovah,
there's Buddha, there's Allah.
And they all basically pretty
much mean the same source.
>>NOORY: Is that source work?
Does it get things done?
>>MONET: It does.
However, it delegates.
I mean, there are levels
of masters, and archangels,
and all sorts of things that
they work kind of filters
down through, because there
are a lot of-- not only
is it this galaxy and
universe, but there are so
many others in addition to
ours here that, of course,
he kind of has to delegate
things a little bit.
>>NOORY: If those
commit suicide,
what happens to their soul?
>>MONET: Suicide is
an interesting one.
Suicide is something that
is very much frowned upon,
not only in the physical realm,
but also the spiritual realm.
>>NOORY: And most
religions frown on it.
>>MONET: Yes, exactly.
And the reason for that is that
suicide should never, ever,
ever, ever, ever be an option
because of the rippling effect
that it creates.
When we come here,
we have contracts.
We choose our parents,
we choose our siblings,
we choose our children,
and they choose us.
So when somebody exits early,
a lot of the people that
were counting on that
person-- even children wanting
to come in, if the
person commits suicide,
that child doesn't
get to be born in.
And who knows, they could
have been the doctor
finding the cure for cancer.
>>NOORY: That's right.
>>MONET: So it creates
that rippling effect.
However, with suicide, it
is seen as a sudden death.
It is handled very differently
on this other side.
People do not go to hell.
And also, it depends on
the suicide and the reason
for which it happens.
For instance, if a person has
had assisted suicide medically
because they are
terminally ill and they're
getting ready to pass anyway,
but they want to choose
their own date, that's fine.
That is not looked
at as a suicide.
Also, people that are
severely suffering
from mental illness, that is
also dealt with differently.
It's when somebody
commits suicide out
of spite or selfish reasons
that it is very much
frowned upon that way.
>>NOORY: I have some
friends who have died.
And I've always wondered
what they went through right
before they died.
Did they know they were dying?
Did they feel it?
One died of COVID
with pneumonia.
Another had a stupid
drug overdose.
But I mean, do they
know they're dying?
>>MONET: Usually they do
know that they're dying,
and then a peace
comes over them.
And if they're having
any pain or discomfort,
it usually leaves instantly.
To die is not painful.
It's actually a relief
in a lot of ways.
But they do, they start
seeing some of these things.
You'll notice sometimes
if they're coherent,
they will talk about
seeing spirits in the room.
And this is common.
A lot of times, people leave and
start talking about them a year
in advance.
And I've had patients that have
actually done that as well.
Even people that had
Alzheimer's would
talk about angels, people
that hadn't spoken for years.
At the time when people
have been crossing,
they observed these
because they're
in that window of also getting
ready to cross themselves.
But yes, they do.
They have a peace that comes
over them that they're ready.
There are three
different kinds of death.
There's a natural death, sudden
death, a near-death experience.
And they're all
handled differently.
Most of us have a
natural death, which
it sounds like your
friends were more
of a natural death in the
sense, including the person that
overdosed because--
>>NOORY: They were
very untimely.
>>MONET: OK.
Right.
A sudden death would
be something more
like an auto accident,
something more instantaneous
that wasn't expected.
>>NOORY: Well,
many deaths aren't
expected, unless you're in bed
for six weeks or withering away.
>>MONET: That's true.
But in reference to your
friends, I mean, we don't die.
We simply shed our skin and go.
It's actually a very
beautiful thing.
>>NOORY: Do you see
spirits every place you go?
>>MONET: No.
I can kind of turn it on and
turn it off, fortunately.
Sometimes they sneak up on me.
>>NOORY: Are there any in here?
>>MONET: Yeah, actually, I did
see one walkthrough earlier,
by the way, when I was
in there getting makeup,
and also sitting in your lobby.
>>NOORY: Really?
>>MONET: Yes.
>>NOORY: What did it look like?
>>MONET: Well, one
of them was a female.
It definitely was a female.
And the other one kind
of went by quickly.
I just kind of saw the tail end
of a shoe, kind of going by.
>>NOORY: The ghost of Gaia.
>>MONET: The ghost of Gaia.
Well, I wouldn't doubt it.
So many of us are empaths, and
our lights-- including yourself.
If you're doing
this kind of thing,
you are in that empathic
window, our lights
are much brighter
because of our abilities.
And spirits are
drawn to us that way
because sometimes
they think that we're
angels that can
help them cross over
or they're just interested
in coming around the energy.
>>NOORY: Lynn is there a heaven?
Is there a hell?
>>MONET: There is
a heaven, and there
is what would be called a hell.
A lot of people have come back
with near-death experiences
that have seen both, that
have talked about both.
Seeing people pass
away and seeing
the loved ones come in
from coming somewhere
and that they help
them transition over,
and having patients
talking about heaven--
I had a patient come
back, she was in what
we call a rallying stage.
And it's where
they're transitioning
and they're unconscious part
of the time and hard to rouse.
And then all of a sudden, they
come back for one more time,
and they're talkative,
and their eyes are bright,
and their toes perk.
And she had come back,
and her niece, April,
was in the room with her.
And I'm assisting the patient.
And she says to her
niece, she said,
when are you going to have
those little baby girls?
I want to see those little baby
girls before I go home to Jesus.
And her niece,
April, turned to her
and she said, well, I
can't have children.
She said, I've been trying
for 25 years to have children,
and I'm 45 and I'm in menopause.
So it's a nice thought, but
that's not going to happen.
And the patient piped up
and she said, no, these
are your two little girls.
You're holding one in each arm.
She said, they have blonde,
ringlet-type hair, chocolate
brown eyes, dimples, and
they look just like you.
And again, April responded,
she said, I am 45 years old.
I'm not going to be able
to have any children.
That's a nice thought.
I don't know why you're
seeing those little girls.
And the aunt passed away.
And about six months later,
April's uncle came through,
and her father came through.
At one point, one of
them had hip surgery.
And she was coming
in to see him.
He was having physical
therapy on the floor,
and she has a baby bump.
And I see her, and
I walk up to her
and I'm like, what's
she got in there.
And she said that she had a
set of identical twin girls
and that she was pregnant--
very early, pregnant right
before her aunt crossed
over, but didn't know it.
And lo and behold, because she
had other family members that
were coming through
the facility,
I got to see her
two other times.
And one of those times those
little girls were toddlers.
And they did have blonde
curls, brown eyes, dimples,
and they looked
just like the mom,
just like the aunt had said.
So they do come back
with beautiful messages,
a lot of times, from
the other side of things
that they've seen.
And they leave those
messages with people.
>>NOORY: Have you ever been
annoyed by the spirit world?
>>MONET: Yes.
Yes, I have.
I recently purchased--
well, I didn't
purchase I inherited a house
from my sister, recently passed
away.
And I was over at the house,
thinking that there was
a spirit problem in the house.
>>NOORY: You could feel that?
>>MONET: Yeah, you feel that.
And there was a man
and a woman in there.
I actually had a couple of
paranormal groups come in,
and they got the EVP readings
and got them on there.
So I'm like, OK.
Well, you know, I just
need to bless the house.
And I use a fire
component when I go in
so that whether they
want to leave or not,
they're sucked into
the fire into the pan,
into a sticky component
in the bottom.
So I went in, I
cleared the house,
and the thing didn't leave.
So I'm in the house with my son.
We're standing upstairs, and all
of a sudden, I see this thing.
And it looks like--
I've never experienced anything
with an elemental before,
but this thing
literally is about--
just under 3 feet tall.
And it looks like the
banker on Hogwarts.
Looks just like in a--
And he's walking past me, and
then he walks past my son.
And my son says, did you
just see Hogwarts walk by?
And I'm like, yeah, I saw him.
>>NOORY: Were you
surprised he did, too?
>>MONET: Yeah.
And I said, I didn't
think that you saw him.
And then he comes back out and
he walks past me again, back
into the room.
And then he comes
out a third time.
The third time he comes out,
there is a wreath of faces
that he kind of brought
with him that were spirits
that he was anchoring there,
that he kind of brought along
as balloons almost.
They were like his
little collection.
And there turned out to be
a rock that my sister had
inadvertently carried into the
house that belonged to him,
and he wanted it back.
So we ended up finding
that out and taking
that out of the house.
And he's very happy now.
So he doesn't continue to
come in the house anymore.
>>NOORY: What is next for
you, Lynn, in your career?
>>MONET: I'm going to continue
to write another book.
I'm going to be doing a
sequel to "Colors of Heaven."
With seeing my sister pass
away not too long ago,
I have learned that,
a lot of times, people
sometimes stay embodied
until the last minute,
like my mother did.
And there are other people that
sometimes leave a day early
or maybe even-- my sister
left 35 minutes before,
and then they let their body
just go ahead and finish,
but they've already
left and gone over.
And I would like to bring
this information to people
and help them to have a better
understanding so that death
isn't so scary.
And that they realize,
too, that it's
not the last time that they're
going to see their loved ones.
They will see them again.
>>NOORY: How do people
get a hold of you?
>>MONET: I am at
www.lynnmonet.com.
I'm getting ready to do
some webinar classes,
and also some lectures
coming up here.
I've got one coming up in
South Africa and Japan.
>>NOORY: Spell your last name.
>>MONET: It is M-O-N-E-T,
like the painter.
>>NOORY: OK.
>>MONET: My books are on Amazon,
they're on Barnes and Noble,
they're everywhere.
However, if you purchase
them through my website,
I will sign them for you
and customize them for you.
And they cost the same.
>>NOORY: Have you ever
been pushed by a spirit?
>>MONET: I have been
pushed by a spirit.
I have been hit by a spirit.
I've had my hair
pulled by a spirit.
I've been bitten by a spirit.
The spirits that were in
the house that I purchased,
they were able to leave
claw marks that bleed.
They were able to leave
bite marks, bruises.
And definitely, they are able
to-- when people are afraid,
they feed on that negativity.
And it enables them to
do more physical acts.
So they were able to push
people and do more things.
And really, with some of the
things such as SIDS, I mean,
it would be very possible
for a spirit like that
to be able to suffocate a
newborn child with the force
that they're able to push people
and pull hair, slam doors, all
of that sort of thing.
>>NOORY: Well, you be careful
dealing with the other side.
>>MONET: They know me by name.
So I have-- there's
a mutual respect.
>>NOORY: Lynn, Thanks for
being on "Beyond Belief."
>>MONET: Thank you so
much for having me.
It was my pleasure.
>>NOORY: Fascinating.
She's a paranormal consultant
dealing with the other side.
It's an interesting job.
One day, we'll all be there.
Thanks for watching
"Beyond Belief."
[MUSIC PLAYING]